Charlotte Bronte: Jane Eyre
1. CHAPTER I
There was no possibility of taking a walk that day.
 We had been wandering, indeed, in the leafless shrubbery an 
hour in the morning; but since dinner (Mrs. Reed, when there was no company, dined early) 
the cold winter wind had brought with it clouds so sombre, and a rain so penetrating, 
that further out-door exercise was now out of the question.

I was glad of it: I never liked long walks, especially on chilly afternoons:
 dreadful to me was the coming home in the raw twilight, with nipped fingers and toes, 
and a heart saddened by the chidings of Bessie, the nurse, and humbled by the consciousness 
of my physical inferiority to Eliza, John, and Georgiana Reed.

The said Eliza, John, and Georgiana were now clustered round their mama in the drawing-room:
 she lay reclined on a sofa by the fireside, and with her darlings about her 
(for the time neither quarrelling nor crying) looked perfectly happy.
 Me, she had dispensed from joining the group; saying, "She regretted to be under
 the necessity of keeping me at a distance; but that until she heard from Bessie, 
and could discover by her own observation, that I was endeavouring in good earnest 
to acquire a more sociable and childlike disposition, a more attractive and 
sprightly manner-- something lighter, franker, more natural, as it were--she 
really must exclude me from privileges intended only for contented, happy, little children."

"What does Bessie say I have done?" I asked.

"Jane, I don't like cavillers or questioners; besides, there is something truly 
forbidding in a child taking up her elders in that manner. Be seated somewhere; 
and until you can speak pleasantly, remain silent."

A breakfast-room adjoined the drawing-room, I slipped in there. It contained a
 bookcase: I soon possessed myself of a volume, taking care that it should be one
 stored with pictures. I mounted into the window-seat: gathering up my feet, 
I sat cross-legged, like a Turk; and, having drawn the red moreen curtain nearly close, 
I was shrined in double retirement.